model versions (#3101)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/collaborate/publish/model-versions.md

## Why version a model?

If a model defines a ["contract"](model-contracts) (a set of guarantees for its structure), it's also possible to change that model's contract in a way that "breaks" the previous set of parameters.

One approach is to force every model consumer to immediately handle the breaking change when it's deployed to production. While this may work at smaller organizations or while iterating on an immature set of data models, it doesn’t scale well beyond that.

Instead, the model owner can create a **new version**, during which consumers can migrate from the old version to the new.

In the meantime, anywhere that model is used downstream, it can be referenced at a specific version.

## How to create a new version of a model

Let's say you have an unversioned model with the following contract:

<File name="models/schema.yml">

```yaml
models:
  - name: dim_customers
    config:
      materialized: table
      contract:
        enforced: true
    columns:
      - name: customer_id
        description: This is the primary key
        data_type: int
      - name: country_name
        description: Where this customer lives
        data_type: string
```

</File>

> If you wanted to make a breaking change to the model - for example, removing a column - you'd create a new model file (e.g. SQL file) encompassing those breaking changes. The default convention is to name the new file would with a `_v<version>` suffix. The new version can then be configured in relation to the original model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wanted to make a breaking change to the model - for example, removing a column - you'd create a new model file (for example, SQL file) encompassing those breaking changes. The default convention is naming the new file with a `_v<version>` suffix. The new version can then be configured in relation to the original model:
```

<File name="models/schema.yml">

```yaml
models:
  - name: dim_customers
    latest_version: 2
    config:
      materialized: table
      contract:
        enforced: true
    columns:
      - name: customer_id
        description: This is the primary key
        data_type: float
      - name: country_name
        description: Where this customer lives
        data_type: string
    versions:
      - v: 2
        columns:

>           - include: *

Reviewer 2: @MichelleArk is this intended to be an array? or a dictionary with `include` and `exclude` keys (among possible others)?

Author: Currently we're thinking it'll be an array element of the `columns` array. So you could do something like: 

```yaml
columns:
  - include: "*"
    exclude: column_name_to_exclude
  - name: customer_id  # included in addition the '*' set. if customer_id were in the '*' set -> override it
    description: This is the primary key
    data_type: float
  - name: country_name # included in addition the '*' set. if country_name were in the '*' set -> override it
    description: Where this customer lives
    data_type: string
```

            exclude: country_name # this is the breaking change!
      - v: 1
        config:
          alias: dim_customers # keep old relation location
```

</File>

> The above configuration will create two models (one for each version), with aliases `dim_customers` (version 1) and `dim_customers_v2`.

Reviewer 3: We'll definitely want to call out that projects which have historically reimplemented `generate_alias_name` will need to update their custom implementations to account for model versions. Otherwise they'll see something like this as soon as they start using versions:
```
dbt.exceptions.AmbiguousAliasError: Compilation Error
  dbt found two resources with the database representation "database.schema.model_name".
  dbt cannot create two resources with identical database representations. To fix this,
  change the configuration of one of these resources:
  - model.project_name.model_name.v1 (models/.../model_name.sql)
  - model.project_name.model_name.v2 (models/.../model_name_v2.sql)
```
I'm not sure if it makes more sense here or in the migration guide (maybe both?)
